Shubham Jha  +918447940400   |   jhashubham976@gmail.com   |   github.com/sam 9796   |   linkedin.com/in/shubhamjha9796  Education  Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee   CGPA - 8.39  Electrical Engineering   Nov. 2020 – May 2024  Experience  Software Development Engineer   July 2024 – Present  Iffco Tokio General Insurance   Gurugram, Haryana  •   Engineered and revamped   insurance agent workflows , reducing processing time by   60%   through   bulk policy issuance   by enabling Excel-based data uploads on a web portal, automating   cover note generation  to cut manual effort by   80% . Achieved a throughput of   10+ policies per minute .  •   Designed and maintained   high-performance backend systems   using   Spring Boot   and   Apache Struts , leveraging   interceptors, filter chains, and JWT authentication   to enhance security by   60% . Introduced  asynchronous processing   and   optimized database transactions   to support real-time data flow.  •   Engineered high-performance   RESTful APIs   with   Bucket4j   for   rate limiting   and   Log4j2   for   structured logging , improving API performance by   50% . Integrated with   Siebel, Polisy400 (IBM AS/400), and Pega   via   SOAP/REST interfaces , ensuring seamless   data synchronization and high availability .  •   Automated   high-scale policy data submission   to   IIB , processing and transmitting over   700,000+ records  in under   5 minutes   by leveraging   batch processing, multi-threading , ensuring regulatory compliance with minimal latency.  •   Improved   application performance   by applying   low-level design patterns , reducing code complexity by  30% . Leveraged   connection pooling, parallel processing, and Redis caching , improving system efficiency by   40%   while handling   millions of transactions   in a high-throughput environment.  Web Development Intern   March 2023 - June 2023  Metakraft   Remote  •   Developed an   interactive and visually engaging UI   using   Three.js , delivering immersive   3D animations  that boosted   user engagement by 50% , enhancing the appeal for   3D content creators .  •   Developed   APIs for user registration and referral system   using   Express.js , incorporating   JWT authentication   for enhanced security and optimizing   frontend-backend integration .  •   Executed   backend deployment   on   StackOS   using   Docker image   and seamlessly hosted the   frontend on the Spheron network , ensuring   robust scalability and high availability .  Projects  Nexatech Quiz Platform   |   React, Express.js, MongoDB, AWS EC2   March 2024 – May 2024  •   Built a full-stack application leveraging React for the frontend, Express.js for the backend, and MongoDB for the database, deployed on AWS EC2 with a responsive and user-friendly interface.  •   Established comprehensive admin functionality to create quiz events, generate unique QR codes for student registration, and facilitate email-based verification increasing security.  •   Constructed a flexible quiz administration system enabling instructors to construct and oversee assessments featuring varied question formats, which enhanced the assessment creation process by 30%.  •   Delivered live quiz functionality, enabling distribution to registered students with an integrated countdown timer to enforce submission deadlines.  Robot Control Panel   |   React, Express.js, MongoDB, AWS EC2   September 2023 – April 2024  •   Designed and implemented a comprehensive full-stack website using React, Express.js, and MongoDB with a responsive UI to control, manage and display data of 200+ robots, hosted on AWS EC2.  •   Integrated the MQTT protocol for wireless control, enabling real-time status updates, and seamlessly displaying live robot data on the user interface for enhanced monitoring.  •   Generated a feature-rich admin panel for managing user registrations and robot allocations, empowering users to monitor and control their allocated robots post-purchase with ease.  Achievements  JEE Advanced 2020 AIR 1580 Max rating of 1609(Expert) on Codeforces(profile - alpha 9796) Max rating of 2149(Guardian) on Leetcode(profile - alpha 9796) Global Rank 236 in Leetcode Weekly Contest 403  Technical Skills  Languages : Java, C/C++, SQL (MySQL), JavaScript, HTML/CSS.  Software Packages : React, Express.js, Nodejs, Spring Boot, Apache Struts, MongoDB, IBM DB2, Docker.  Others : Data Structure and Algorithms, Database Management System(Relational Database), Computer Networks, Operating Systems, Object Oriented Designs and Programming.
